Consume drogue message via functions (#16)
drogue-iot/blog.drogue.io: content/2021-05-27-consume-drogue-messages/index.md

cluster, along with the topic and bootstrap server listed in the
following YAML. The only thing you may want to change is the
`consumerGroup`, to ensure the "sink" receives all messages. If you
create more than one `KafkaSource` for the same topic, you probably
want to give each a unique `consumerGroup` name.

~~~yaml
apiVersion: sources.knative.dev/v1alpha1
kind: KafkaSource
metadata:
  name: drogue-messages
spec:
  consumerGroup: some-unique-name
  bootstrapServers:
    - kafka-eventing-kafka-bootstrap.knative-eventing.svc:9092
  topics:
    - knative-messaging-kafka.drogue-iot.iot-channel
  sink:
    ref:
      apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
      kind: Service
      name: cloudevents-rust
~~~

Assuming you put that YAML in a file named `source.yaml` you would
apply it like so:

```shell
kubectl apply -f source.yaml
```

You can then observe that its status won't become "Ready" until we
create the `drogue-addict` service, configured as its "sink" above:

```shell
kubectl get kafkasource
```

# Our Knative Service, built by func

The [func] project aims to simplify the creation of Knative Services
that respond to [CloudEvents]. It was designed to be run as either a

> self-contained CLI or a [kn plugin]. Unpack the [appropriate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
self-contained CLI or a [`kn` plugin]. Unpack the [appropriate
```

binary](https://github.com/boson-project/func/releases/latest)
somewhere on your `$PATH` and run the following to get started:

```shell

> func create drogue-addict && cd drogue-addict

Reviewer: I love how simple this is!

```

Though it supports an ever-expanding [variety of popular
languages](https://github.com/boson-project/func/blob/main/docs/guides/developers_guide.md),

> its default is nodejs, which will serve our purposes for now, since

Reviewer: ```suggestion
its default is Node.js, which will serve our purposes for now, since
```

we're just going to log the event we receive, along with the request
context, just to show what data we have to work with.  Overwrite the
entire `index.js` file it generated with the following:

~~~javascript
/**
 * Log the drogue event 
 *
 * @param {Context} context the invocation context
 * @param {Object} event the CloudEvent 
 */
function handle(context, event) {
  context.log.info("context");
  console.log(JSON.stringify(context, null, 2));
  context.log.info("event");
  console.log(JSON.stringify(event, null, 2));
};

module.exports = handle;
~~~

We need to build our function image. Unfortunately, [func] currently

> requires a docker daemon for this. If you're using [podman], you can

Reviewer: FWIW, it will always require this unless you want to build your function on the cluster (which is not available yet, but will be someday).

simulate that like so:

```shell
podman system service --time=0 tcp:localhost:1234 &
export DOCKER_HOST=tcp://127.0.0.1:1234
```

> With docker configured, we can now deploy our function. We'll need a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the daemon configured, we can now deploy our function. We'll need a
```
Only to be clear that it's either podman or docker

docker registry to store our image:

```shell
func deploy --registry docker.io/<YOUR_ACCOUNT>
```

# Testing our function

With any luck, when we publish an event from our "device" to the

> drogue-cloud, that event will be logged by our nodejs function. We can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
drogue-cloud, that event will be logged by our Node.js function. We can
```

    "traceparent": "00-f81b71b968f77384e065fcf3aa33e65d-6bbbbe6e14ee9dd8-00",
    "x-forwarded-for": "172.17.0.9, 172.17.0.2",
    "x-forwarded-proto": "http",
    "x-request-id": "3883fd1f-cfa6-4297-90be-f2a78e34d32c"
  },
  "method": "POST",
  "httpVersion": "1.1",
  "httpVersionMajor": 1,
  "httpVersionMinor": 1,
  "log": {},
  "cloudevent": {
    "id": "937d586a-e5dc-441d-96e8-24a74e561965",
    "time": "2021-05-24T23:36:57.448Z",
    "type": "io.drogue.event.v1",
    "source": "drogue://app%5Fid/device%5Fid",
    "specversion": "1.0",
    "datacontenttype": "application/json",
    "subject": "anything",
    "application": "app_id",
    "device": "device_id",
    "instance": "drogue",
    "partitionkey": "app%5Fid/device%5Fid",
    "traceparent": "00-f81b71b968f77384e065fcf3aa33e65d-120c506cd2ce781e-00",
    "data": {
      "temp": 42
    }
  }
}
{"level":30,"time":1621899419656,"pid":20,"hostname":"drogue-addict-00001-deployment-799ddc69c7-dpqgm","reqId":"req-2","msg":"event"}
{
  "temp": 42
}
```

If you don't see that, run `./scripts/publish.sh` again and recheck
the logs.

# Now what?

We're not entirely sure! Some of this is just meant to show that our

> architecture -- loosely-coupled knative services swapping cloud events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
architecture -- loosely-coupled Knative services swapping cloud events
```
